baddest yen but if you asked why do I
put so much time and effort into YouTube
you know etc etc the main point in a
sense is not activism it's having other
people to do activism with it's these
political aspirations for the future of
the vegan movement most of them I can't
do alone and some of them even if I
could do it alone
I wouldn't want to do it alone so I'm a
middle-aged person I'm 39 years old the
hardest people to galvanize and organize
politically are other middle-aged people
right why they have a full-time job they
have kids they have other priorities
it's when you're not committed to one
job one place one schedule then it's
possible for you to reach out to other
people and organize something anything
in terms of vegan activism or any form
of activism YouTube and social media and
even engineering that first step of
getting to know each other and testing
how much you can trust a quad with each
other that's facilitated to an
unbelievable extent in the digital era
of the 21st century as opposed to the
leap of faith somebody would have had to
take in the 1960s they're handed a
pamphlet that says hey join the peace
movement join this group we're
protesting for peace we're activists for
peace we're going to City Hall
Parliament to the Senate for peace
sometimes peace really means communism
sometimes peace means you know a black
rights extremist group that engages in
you know illegal and violent activity
that you don't be involved that you want
to be with a non-violent group not a
valid group or whatever maybe you know
to move past the pamphlet to know who is
behind the pamphlet the good and the bad
of them you know there are their beliefs
their modus operandi what they do and
don't do very very difficult to do just
a few decades ago and now it's
incredibly easy the fact that I'm gonna
point my life or I can work on something
anything
this person writing to me sees that as a
weakness I've got a point out in
response no it's a strength we have this
thing in English you got to strike while
the iron's hot it's the exact opposite
with politics you've got to learn to
make the most of the opportunity that's
there when the iron is
call
[Music]
baddest yen hey guys what's up this is a
response to an email I got from an ex
patreon supporter it's not the first
email on that discussion um for me it
raises a bunch of interesting issues
about activism and slacktivism and as
some of you already know I've just
returned to Canada after about two years
in China I think it felt a little bit
shorter two years in in total and you
know I'm wanting to get back into real
world activism I'm wanting to have real
collaborations with real people in real
life who go to City Hall and go to
Parliament and lobby for legal reform
and go to the school boards and complain
to the school boards that the teaching
children that eating eggs are healthy
and eating eggs is not healthy and all
kinds of productive hands-on democratic
transparent non-violent activism you
know working within the the constraints
of living in a modern Western democratic
capitalist bourgeois society I could go
on you know I got these kinds of
aspirations but ultimately my aspiration
is not to do any of these things alone
it's to do with other people and that is
one of the main reasons why I came on
YouTube in the first place and one of
the reasons why I stuck with YouTube in
the first place I have other reasons to
be on YouTube talked about here but
including the fact that I have a
daughter who lives in France I only see
her now twice a year you know leaving a
record of the kind of person I am and my
political and philosophical views from
my daughter in the future that's also
meaningful reason to be on YouTube but
if you asked why do I put so much time
and effort into YouTube you know etc etc
the main point in a sense is not
activism it's having other people to do
activism with it's these political
aspirations for the future the vegan
movement most of them I can't do alone
and some of them even if I could do it
alone I wouldn't want to do it alone let
me ask you this as blame as it is to do
Street protests who wants to get out and
protest on the street as just one man I
have seen sir by the way my girlfriend's
in the background here off camera oh I
have actually attended some moving
one-man protest once in a while you see
that one guy
they're on the street and he's
protesting because his own son died in
the Iraq war or something like this once
in a while you see that kind of thing
but most forms of activism certainly
involve a quorum
I've interested people who can
contribute to the cause even if it's
just for them to engage in the
discussions on the Internet then lead up
the event itself so to give to give an
example
I've been floating this idea lately of
doing a conference in Vancouver and I
mean what's the minimum number of
participants you need to make conference
like that happened and there are there
are economic aspects to that puzzle to
people who may have to buy airplane
tickets and have to stay in a hotel and
even if everyone is paying for their own
airplane tickets in hotel they need to
be assured that this is worth their time
and money to come and participate in
this conference so there's a lot to it
look here's the the email I just got
I mean sort of skip over some parts but
you'll see I think probably almost every
sense of the short email I do want to
reply to you there's an email from an ex
patreon supporter she writes you said it
yourself
YouTube isn't the place to do what you
want to do I think YouTube was never the
place and never will be this was the
problem from day one in my opinion
that's her reading to me so that is 180
degrees the opposite of my view she is
going on to argue that what's really
important is having collaborations with
people or many people are working with
other activists that you meet face to
face in real life and I think that is B
F I think that is [ __ ] in the
parlance of our time I think it is
nonsense I think she's not being honest
with herself and she's not being honest
and reflecting on her own experience
like one of the most overrated locales
or the the most overrated milieu for
political activism has got to be the
University campus I've spent so much of
my life on University campuses in the
last five years in the last 15 years who
do you think you're gonna meet on
University campuses how are you gonna
meet them I mean even if you were on a
university campus every day as I was
when I was at University of Victoria
when I was at First Nations University
was that University of Toronto when I
was at Cambridge and Oxford England the
[ __ ]
you're standing on a university campus
does not mean you're going to make the
connections to do real life activism to
meet you know to get organized if you
have a youtube channel that explains to
people what you're about choosing what
kind of person you are your approach to
activism all the political and
philosophical assumptions and
underpinnings for your approach then you
really can meet up with people whether
they're on our campus or whether they
have a full-time job or whatever their
their situation may be but the idea that
real life the theater of really for the
theatre of a university campus ism is a
great place to get organized with
like-minded people I think is is dead
wrong I think YouTube absolutely is the
perfect place for me to be doing what
I'm trying to do here because again what
I'm trying to do is meet other people I
can do it with know ultimately what I
want to do in your life is not on the
internet it's in real life but how do
you get together that group of people
whether it's five or ten people and you
know so looking at YouTube as a
recruiting tool as a rallying tool as a
crossroads and not just a crossroads
because let's face it up I've made this
comparison before if you pick up a
pamphlet and the pamphlet is trying to
do the same thing that I'm doing here in
YouTube like hey let's get our eyes how
much do you know about the person who
wrote that pamphlet you know politically
personally morally ethically and
otherwise do you do you have the trust
if you just read a pamphlet do you have
the trust to subscribe to patreon and
pay that person $1 a month to support
them publishing more pamphlets probably
not
I have almost 900 videos on YouTube now
we're way past 800 apart from my YouTube
videos you can read articles of written
you can interact with me in various ways
you can talk to me and course you talk
to me on skype or you know via patreon
or what-have-you it's quite easy in the
low risk and low effort for someone who
might want to collaborate with me in a
political project to get to know my
political views the good and the bad of
them I mean I'm not saying it's all good
a lot of people may learn about
political views and decide they don't
want to work with me and that's fine
that's cool and vice versa
I might find that about
about them but YouTube and social media
and even engineering that first step of
getting to know each other and testing
how much you can trust acquired with
each other that's facilitated to an
unbelievable extent in the digital era
of the 21st century as opposed to the
leap of faith somebody would have had to
take in the 1960s they're handed a
pamphlet that says hey join the peace
movement join this group we're
protesting for peace
we're activists for peace we're going to
City Hall Parliament to the Senate for
peace
sometimes peace really means communism
sometimes peace means you know a black
rights extremist group that engages in
you know illegal and violent activity
that you don't be involved that you want
to be with a non-violent group not a
valid group whatever may be you know to
move past the pamphlet to know who is
behind the pamphlet the good and the bad
of them you know their their beliefs
their modus operandi what they do and
don't do very very difficult to do just
a few decades ago and now it's
incredibly easy so I think YouTube is
absolutely the right place to be and I
can also say I get much better results
on YouTube than I do writing essays in
text form and posting on the internet
maybe the world would be a better place
if that were not so maybe purple to be a
better place if long-form essays were
the medium of communication but they're
not so within the English language at
least this is the way to do it it might
be very different if you spoke a
language with a small number of speakers
like Slovenian but frankly I doubt it
probably I think you know even for a
small language like Slovenian probably
the YouTube scene is really hopping
within that language and you can be the
one person representing vegan politics
in Slovenian right sorry I continue read
this letter as I said before quote as I
said before I think you need to stay in
one place for a few years if you
continue to move around nothing clever
be created especially not a bricks and
mortar institution like you want it so
look I'm disagreeing here with what I
think she's saying in principle what you
saying in principle is you need to
settle down and get roots in one place
you were a little bit later in the email
she says that in other terms I'm not I'm
not putting words it
so much like you need to settle down
have a home and a job and a basis in one
place in the real world before you start
to do what you're trying to do on
YouTube that is the exact opposite of
the truth right and I deal with those
times so I'm a middle aged person I'm 39
years old the hardest people to
galvanize and organize politically are
other middle-aged people right why they
have a full-time job they have kids they
have other priorities yeah and that's
why I mean activism stereotypically and
actually tends to gravitate towards high
school students and college students on
one side and retired people on the other
side historically a lot of movements
that we remember as being populated by
young vital people really weren't the
reality the anti-war movements and peace
movements of the whole 20th century was
actually much more elderly people that
you might want to think it was um for
example during the 1960's and 1970's
elderly people who could remember World
War one were really the core of the
peace movement the anti-war movement the
experience of living through World War
one is quite a bit different than
growing up say after World War two the
perspective on war and its consequences
so you can imagine but of course by the
1970s people who could remember World
War one were truly into their retirement
years
they were at the end of their their
lifecycle so this is much often
overlooked whether you're talking about
the history of feminism or the history
of the gay rights movement or anti-war
movements we tend to like to portray
them with selected photographs you know
from protests or rallies of young people
often past naked young people it's I
mean if you just do a Google Images
search for any of those protest
movements now including the gay rights
movement you often get you know guys at
these protests with body paint on and
wearing revealing attire and you will
MIT entirely the importance of elderly
and retired people but the hardest
people organized are the people in the
middle of that age spectrum right and I
think you have to look at and for me I
have to look at this time in my life I'm
encouraging other people watch this
video loot stem your life as an
opportunity in exactly this way it's
when you're
not committed to one job one place one
schedule then it's possible for you to
reach out to other people and organize
something anything in terms of vegan
activism or any form of activism right
and I want to put a little bit of
emphasis onto something anything guys uh
I don't need to be a leader I'd be happy
to be a joiner I'd be happy to join up
with somebody else's movement somebody
else's activity that they've already got
the the impetus rolling for but there is
nothing for me to join up to you know I
can't join direct action everywhere for
one thing I think their movement is
dying I've just recently been
interviewing and talking to people who
are deeply involved with direct action
everywhere I might have another video is
that coming up there's one more woman
who wants to talk to me actually with
some of the economic details the budget
and where it goes where the money comes
from where it goes for TXE it's a very
interesting topic and stop something all
political movements have to worry about
where the money comes from where it goes
um but it's not the case that I live in
an era or a context where I can easily
join up with someone else's movement but
I'd be happy to do so um at this phase
of my life exactly the fact that I have
this flexibility that I can move from
place to place that I could join someone
else that I can change what I'm doing to
reflect the interests the other people
my life so in the past you know one of
my interests is lobbying school board's
education system and back when I thought
I could collaborate with tofu goddess
when I talked to her but activism I put
emphasis in that I said look one of the
things I really want to do with veganism
is put together an outfit that lobbies
school boards and you go from town to
town within Canada you could give
basically the same speech the same
presentation from one school board to
the next when you look at what school
boards are teaching children about
education and you challenge their
assumptions about milk and eggs meat -
of course some extent but milk and eggs
are probably the really strong suit in
terms of the the vegan argument and you
challenge the extent to which donations
from the dairy board of the egg board
and even like museum exhibits by the way
they were put together by dairy boards
you can see some of these are really
crazy big budget
so as they you know they have like a
traveling a truck that brings a cow to
the school and they set up and they set
up a museum exhibit there's no other
term for it to tell children how
wonderful you know dairy farming
supposedly is and so on you know to
challenge those things and say look why
do you take money from the dairy board
and the egg board but you don't take it
from coca-cola you don't think it from
Pepsi you don't think it from the
cigarette companies you don't think it
from the whiskey or the beer companies
this actually is in the scene I would
love to press that fight forward I'd
love to have a couple other people in
Canada I can form a coalition with
actually incorporate an NGO or UC with
but what please even though it that is
one of my interests one of the reasons
why I was putting emphasis on it the
past was because I knew one other person
with a Canadian passport Canadian says
who had that interest in common it's
like okay so I can build on that because
that's the common ground of God with at
least one other person now I need five
or ten people to really move forward
with that and I don't have that in tofu
goddess apparently has now banned in
this channel because at some point I
said something too offensive about some
topic she cares about I don't even know
what she hasn't explained it to me so
I've lost that one person who might have
started the ball rolling right um the
fact that I'm gonna point my life or I
can work on something anything
this person writing to me sees that as a
weakness I've got a point out in
response no it's a strength and that is
when new ideas could take home that
that's when you as an individual are
open the new ideas and new forms of
activism and for me it is right now for
you watching this video if it's right
now also hit me up
get in touch me especially if you're a
Canadian citizen if you're in Germany or
France or Slovenia maybe you can just
commiserate but I want to know you and
again that's fundamentally why I'm on
YouTube quote I do not know how DST was
created I can only speak for france
france's most known association or most
successful association at the moment is
called l214
it started with just three people
writing articles about animal rights and
publishing them on the internet etc etc
volunteers joined they serve recording
videos in slaughterhouse the mainstream
media started talking about it and now
it's to some extent a real organization
in real life it's all right so part of
the positive message there is exactly
that it starts with three people right
but it is three people precisely with
the kind of flexibility in their lives
even if it's the flexibility you say oh
you're in Los Angeles I can go meet you
in Los Angeles and within France
oh you're in Perpignan I can go meet you
in Peru you I'm in Paris you're in
Perpignan but let's make this work you
know you do need them you talk about
three people but it's quite likely three
unemployed people or three people who
somehow all right a crossroads in their
life where they can set aside their
other responsibilities and take on this
new challenge right I have a window of
opportunity right now and it's closing
all those closing in a positive way we
have signed up to go to a school for
cuisine to learn how to bake so I say we
me and my girlfriend together we're
gonna learn how to bake bread we're
gonna learn how to bake cake you're
gonna learn how to make pastries why am
I doing this for the future of the vegan
movement because I'm interested in the
in vacant vegan food services as a way
of forming a basis for activism in a
sense as something that is a kind of
activism or advocate advocacy in itself
right if I were not vegan
it would not be enrolled in these
courses for baking it is for me really
linked to the politics the ethics the
ecology above all else and I feel like
bread and pastry is actually waking
before that but guess what
as soon as those classes start well I'm
busy 12 hours a day five days a week
minimum I'm gonna be busy as hell with
that
baking college and I'm probably gonna
love every minute of it being busy is
not a bad thing in my book right so be
honest with yourself about your
commitments as a middle aged person or
if you're watching this as a young
person looking forward to middle age you
know we have this saying in English you
got to strike while the iron's hot it's
the exact opposite with politics you've
got to learn to make the most of the
opportunity that's there when the iron
is cold a virus yen